---
layout: post
title: "Going Blind Inspired Me to Quit My Own Startup to Build Something New"
date: 2016-11-29 11:26:37 UTC
updated: 2016-11-29 11:26:37 UTC
comments: false
summary: "..."
---

## Why I left a growing startup to build Roadmap

I’ve been going blind my entire life. Most people have a 180-degree field of
vision. Legally blind, I have 2% of a normal vision range in one eye.

I was diagnosed with [Retinitis
pigmentosa](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Retinitis_pigmentosa), an inherited
degenerative eye disease, when I was 3 years old. The afflicted experience
progressive “tunnel vision” and eventual blindness.

The doctor told my mother by 20 years old I would be blind. She refused to
accept my diagnosis and never spoke of it again. I learned about my diagnosis
for the first time when I was eleven. I couldn’t see what was happening at the
front of class. From there, I learned my condition was permanent. I learned
there was no cure. From a child’s perspective, it seemed I would be prevented
from seeing lessons in the classroom; I resolved I could live with that.

> The doctors told me my vision would slowly fade until I was blind.

The first real problems caused by my vision happened playing hockey. As a French
Canadian, during my early teens hockey was everything. Each day of the week from
4pm to 9pm I played outdoor ice hockey with friends and foes. Hockey was the
first thing I cared about that [Retinitis
pigmentosa](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Retinitis_pigmentosa) would take from
me, not the last.

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/800/1*po_Jg_ek64ZZjjcSPRO5Bg.jpeg)

> At a very young age I rationalized that time, specifically my time, was
> important. Impending blindness created a sense of urgency.

I tried to convinced myself that going blind was something unique about me. As
my vision started to fade into smaller and smaller circles, I did not let my
‘tunnel vision” become the focus of my life. It is still a day-to-day fight and
one I don’t always win.

### Making Things

Like most kids, I wanted to be good at something. My parents bought an [Apple
II](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Apple_II_series) in 1986 and later a [Tandy
1000](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tandy_1000) in 1990. The devices fascinated
me. Then the internet changed everything. The internet made it possible for
anyone to learn about making things with computers.

The first technical knowledge I acquired came from reading every word of the
documentation for [mIRC](http://www.mirc.com/), an internet relay chat client. I
realized I could build things from behind a computer screen that could solve all
types of problems.

> Despite my usual apprehension about the future, back then the future of computer
> programming seemed limitless. I’m even more convinced of that today.

Instead of being blind by my early 20s like my diagnosis predicted, I was
grateful to complete a computer programming degree. My first job as a programmer
was working for a small agency out of a basement here in Canada. After a few
months, I realized I could do something similar and better from my own basement.

Since then I’ve worked on [dozens of technical products including 3 that I built
and sold
myself.](https://dominicstpierre.com/congratulation-youve-failed-again-saas-66bc1fbce4#.1dzjreioz)
I fell in love with making useful things, things that solve problems, that
people love. I first experienced this feeling with an app I built when I was 28
called Twollow, a simple way to connect with and follow Twitter users with
shared interests. It grew to 15,000 active users. People went out their way to
give feedback and tell me how much they loved my product. I was hooked.

Making things with computers allowed me to work from home since 2005 when my
wife and I had our first daughter. Working from home lets me be home for
homeschooling and avoid the panic of navigating a commute without being able to
see. Many of the engineers and teams I’ve worked with over the years had no idea
I was legally blind.

### Making the Wrong Things

When my kids were born I started to ask myself: Would I be able to see them
grow? What would happen in our lives together that I won’t be able to see? Would
they too inherit this disease? How could I possibly accept that? How could I
make everything up to them?

Starting a family reignited a sense of urgency about my work and the decisions
I’d made. Earlier this year I was working as a Co-founder & CTO at a startup in
sales technology. For the last two years, I worked 60+ hours a week on the
project, determined it would be a major milestone in my success as an
entrepreneur and engineer.

As an entrepreneur you accept the trade-offs. You learn that 9-to-5 doesn’t
apply to you. However, despite working from home, I was still missing out on
important moments with my family. Not that everyone’s time home with their
family isn’t important, but I couldn’t shake the feeling that my ability to
*still see these moments* with my family created a non-typical need for
work/life balance.

For example, in Quebec we have 3 months out of the year when we can go outside.
It’s just too damn cold and dark the rest of the year. We actually emphasize
going outside during this time to get vitamins from the sun and to do outdoor
activities with our daughters. This past summer we didn’t have time to take even
one bicycle ride together. As it got cold this year, I saw our bikes in the
garage untouched since last season. I was doing it wrong.

### Tunnel Vision vs Product Vision

Tunnel vision is described as the tendency to focus on one thing, with an often
limited point of view. For some makers tunnel vision is a blessing. For others,
tunnel vision can be a curse.

With renewed scrutiny for how I was spending my time, I learned I didn’t care
about sales or sales technology enough to push the product in the right
direction. No matter how many hours I logged, without alignment around product
vision I struggled to feel confident I was working on the right things.

> In the focused effort of making a successful product or being a successful
> entrepreneur, I lost my vision for what I wanted with my life.

What problems am I passionate about? What did I want to make? How did I want to
spend my time? These were questions I needed better answers for.

[Justin Jackson](https://medium.com/u/a02dd1574d08) a friend and fellow maker,
brought clarity to the situation in [this post about needing more than
product/market fit ](https://justinjackson.ca/want/)to be happy and successful.
He cautions makers not to look for product/market fit at the exclusion of
everything else, that founder/market fit matters too.

It was crystal clear. I wasn’t focused on the right things. I was making the
wrong things. Despite month-over-month growth and despite bootstrapping to
monthly recurring revenues that most products never see, I quit my own startup.

### Making the Right Things

Going blind emphasizes a sense of urgency that is part of the human condition:
the desire for purpose and meaning despite limited resources.

Everything to everyone feels urgent in a startup. For makers, that urgency is
often coupled with politics, technical debt, and pivots. And it isn’t just
startups that struggle to answer the question: “What should we do next?” Every
product team I’ve been a part of, big and small, we’ve always struggled to
create alignment around the future direction of the product.

A common thread for every successful product I’ve worked on is user feedback,
lots of it, and sooner rather than later. For my next project, I focused on
solving a pain I knew from firsthand experience and built it for people I relate
to. I wanted to help makers (myself included!) leverage feedback to:

* focus on the right things
* create the most value from their time
* build things people love

### Making Roadmap

Looking without seeing doesn’t just afflict the blind. It’s often to blame for
why so many projects and businesses (or lives for that matter) get off course.
My most recent project [Roadmap](https://medium.com/u/325d71199c09) solves a
problem I looked at without seeing my entire career.

We’ve talked with hundreds of people and put a lot of thought into Roadmap. I am
excited to see where the journey takes me and my two co-founders [Brittany
Fuller](https://medium.com/@BAMarieFuller) and [Allison
Grayce](https://medium.com/@allisongrayce).

As for my journey, there is always hope that advances in scientific research
will develop cures for blindness caused by Retinitis Pigmentosa.

It’s also possible that one day I will be totally blind and unable to see my
family or create software products. My experience with what technology is
capable of gives me hope for a cure.

You can learn more about this disease and research efforts
[here](http://www.blindness.org/retinitis-pigmentosa). In the meantime, I’ll be
spending my time wisely with my family and building something people love.

* [Startup](https://dominicstpierre.com/tagged/startup?source=post)
* [Entrepreneurship](https://dominicstpierre.com/tagged/entrepreneurship?source=post)
* [Product
Management](https://dominicstpierre.com/tagged/product-management?source=post)
* [Inspiration](https://dominicstpierre.com/tagged/inspiration?source=post)
* [Blindness](https://dominicstpierre.com/tagged/blindness?source=post)

